Nikolai
IDWeb Project 2


Methodology:
I had the idea of doing a grid of eyeballs and controlling how they blink to move based on positionality. Then while talking with Marcus he mentioned Chrono photography which is something I had briefly kind of had the idea of and had ideated on having them pause in the middle of their frame based on their position. Knowing I was going to do that I decided to go with animeJS originally because I knew it had a timeline feature so I figured I could map out each timeline and then go from there. I also knew that animeJS had a grid function. After days and hundreds of lines of code I realised that the way I was implementing the stop motion animation for the eyeballs in animeJS made it conflict with how I wanted to chain the other animation timelines, so I restarted the javascript from scratch. As an aside, the optimization issues I was having with lagging was actually because I was doing something that animeJS didn't like but I did actually get some practice downscaling images for the web as well as using CSS sprite sheets instead of loading individual images. When I was using CSS sprite sheets I realised I was doing what view boxes do and instead of fully replacing each image I was re-dictating what location it would be at rather than creating the animation itself. I decided to focus on the theme of social media and the panopticon so paired with the images of the eyeballs that are blinking and continually staring at the viewe,r I have in a very mid gray tone -almost blending into the background as noise- typical phrases or social media quotes from influencers that you would see online. Design system wise I went with a light blue and a richer almost royal blue as a lot of social media sites you tend to see them use those colors like Meta or Facebook or Twitter or LinkedIn. For that same reason I chose to go with a font family that is a sans-serif so I chose Rubik by Google fonts. For the final implementation of the animations I coded a new blink function myself that I could then call from each of my animation timeline triggers as well as a separate blink animation with a frame hold feature for when I wanted it to stop at the specific frames that matched with their index number. I have two main different types of animations: a central wave fading outwards based off of a delay and then also one that goes in reading order so left to right top to bottom and then both of those have alternatives, the wave having a reverse and the reading order one also having a frame hold iteration.